Okay, have you done configuring this topology
so all pc is able to communicate with all server?
Now let’s see the solution.
Let’s start with switch 1, we will configure
vlan here.
Go to CLI, enable, configure terminal, let’s
create the vlan first, vlan 10, vlan 20,
and vlan 30.
Next let’s configure the interface that
connected to the pc. This is fa0/2,
and this is fa0/3.
So fa0/2 and fa0/3 will be in vlan 10.
Interface range fa0/2-3, switchport mode access,
switchport access vlan 10.
And then for vlan 20, this is fa0/4, and this
is fa0/5.
So fa0/4-5 will be in the vlan 20.
Interface range fa0/4-5, switchport mode access,
switchport access vlan 20.
Next for vlan 30, this is fa0/6, and this
is fa0/7,
so interface fa0/6-7 will be in the vlan 30.
Interface range fa0/6-7, switchport mode access.
Switchport access vlan 30.
Last, let’s configure the interface that
connected to router 1 become trunk.
Interface fa0/1, switchport mode trunk.
Okay now we have done on switch 1, next let’s
configure router 1, CLI, enable, configure terminal,
let’s configure the ip address
of vlan first.
Here the light is still red so we need to
enable the interface.
Interface fa0/0, no shutdown.
Okay now the light is green.
Now let’s configure the ip address of vlan.
Let’s start with vlan 10, interface fa0/0.10,
encapsulation dot1q 10, ip address 192.168.10.1
255.255.255.0
Next let’s configure for vlan 20, interface
fa0/0.20, encapsulation dot1q 20,
ip address 192.168.20.1 255.255.255.0.
Last let’s configure for vlan 30, interface
fa0/0.30, encapsulation dot1q 30,
ip address 192.168.30.1 255.255.255.0.
Okay now we have done configuring ip address
for all vlan, next let’s also configure
dhcp server for all vlan.
Let’s start with vlan 10, ip dhcp pool vlan 10,
network 192.168.10.0 255.255.255.0, default-router
192.168.10.1,
Next for vlan 20, ip dhcp pool vlan 20, network
192.168.20.0 255.255.255.0,
default-router 192.168.20.1, last for vlan 30, ip dhcp pool
vlan 30, network 192.168.30.0 255.255.255.0,
default-router 192.168.30.1.
Okay now we have done configuring dhcp server
for all vlan, let’s configure dhcp client
on the client.
Okay all pc already get an ip address automatically
from the router 1.
Last, let’s configure the ip address of
the router 1 that connected to router 2.
Interface fa0/1, no shutdown, ip address 10.10.10.1
255.255.255.252.
Okay now we have done configuring ip address
on router 1, I think enough for this video,
in the next video, we are going to configure
router 2.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.